Glossary for the OASIS Security
Assertion Markup Language (SAML)
V2.0
OASIS Standard, 15 March 2005
Document identifier:
     saml-glossary-2.0-os
Location:
       http://docs.oasis-open.org/security/saml/v2.0/
Editors:
        Jeff Hodges, Neustar
        Rob Philpott, RSA Security
        Eve Maler, Sun Microsystems
SAML V2.0 Contributors:
      Conor P. Cahill, AOL
      John Hughes, Atos Origin
      Hal Lockhart, BEA Systems
      Michael Beach, Boeing
      Rebekah Metz, Booz Allen Hamilton
      Rick Randall, Booz Allen Hamilton
      Thomas Wisniewski, Entrust
      Irving Reid, Hewlett-Packard
      Paula Austel, IBM
      Maryann Hondo, IBM
      Michael McIntosh, IBM
      Tony Nadalin, IBM
      Nick Ragouzis, Individual
      Scott Cantor, Internet2
      RL 'Bob' Morgan, Internet2
      Peter C Davis, Neustar
      Jeff Hodges, Neustar
      Frederick Hirsch, Nokia
      John Kemp, Nokia
      Paul Madsen, NTT
      Steve Anderson, OpenNetwork
      Prateek Mishra, Principal Identity
      John Linn, RSA Security
      Rob Philpott, RSA Security
      Jahan Moreh, Sigaba
      Anne Anderson, Sun Microsystems
      Eve Maler, Sun Microsystems
      Ron Monzillo, Sun Microsystems
      Greg Whitehead, Trustgenix

Abstract:
       This specification defines terms used throughout the OASIS Security Assertion Markup Language
       (SAML) specifications and related documents.
Status:
          This is an OASIS Standard document produced by the Security Services Technical Committee. It
          was approved by the OASIS membership on 1 March 2005.
          Committee members should submit comments and potential errata to the security-
          services@lists.oasis-open.org list. Others should submit them by filling out the web form located
          at http://www.oasis-open.org/committees/comments/form.php?wg_abbrev=security. The
          committee will publish on its web page (http://www.oasis-open.org/committees/security) a catalog
          of any changes made to this document.
          For information on whether any patents have been disclosed that may be essential to
          implementing this specification, and any offers of patent licensing terms, please refer to the
          Intellectual Property Rights web page for the Security Services TC (http://www.oasis-
          open.org/committees/security/ipr.php).

Table of Contents
1 Glossary......................................................................................................................................................4
2 References................................................................................................................................................13

1       Glossary
This normative document defines terms used throughout the OASIS Security Assertion Markup Language
(SAML) specifications and related documents.
Some definitions are derived directly from external sources (referenced in an appendix), some definitions
based on external sources have been substantively modified to fit the SAML context, and some are newly
developed for SAML. Please refer to the external sources for definitions of terms not explicitly defined
here.
Some definitions have multiple senses provided. They are denoted by (a), (b), and so on. References to
terms defined elsewhere in this glossary are italicized.
Following are the defined terms used in the SAML specifications and related documents.

         Term                                                          Definition

 Access                                       To interact with a system entity in order to manipulate, use, gain
                                              knowledge of, and/or obtain a representation of some or all of a
                                              system entity’s resources. [RFC2828]

 Access Control                               Protection of resources against unauthorized access; a process
                                              by which use of resources is regulated according to a security
                                              policy and is permitted by only authorized system entities
                                              according to that policy. [RFC2828]

 Access Control Information                   Any information used for access control purposes, including
                                              contextual information [X.812]. Contextual information might
                                              include source IP address, encryption strength, the type of
                                              operation being requested, time of day, etc. Portions of access
                                              control information may be specific to a request itself, some may
                                              be associated with the connection via which a request is
                                              transmitted, and others (for example, time of day) may be
                                              "environmental". [RFC2829]

 Access Rights                                A description of the type of authorized interactions a subject can
                                              have with a resource. Examples include read, write, execute,
                                              add, modify, and delete. [Taxonomy]

 Account                                      Typically a formal business agreement for providing regular
                                              dealings and services between a principal and business service
                                              providers.

 Account Linkage                              A method of relating accounts at two different providers that
                                              represent the same principal so that the providers can
                                              communicate about the principal. Account linkage can be
                                              established through the sharing of attributes or through identity
                                              federation.

 Active Role                                  A role that a system entity has donned when performing some
                                              operation, for example accessing a resource.

Administrative Domain                        An environment or context that is defined by some combination
                                             of one or more administrative policies, Internet Domain Name
                                             registrations, civil legal entities (for example, individuals,
                                             corporations, or other formally organized entities), plus a
                                             collection of hosts, network devices and the interconnecting
                                             networks (and possibly other traits), plus (often various) network
                                             services and applications running upon them. An administrative
                                             domain may contain or define one or more security domains. An
                                             administrative domain may encompass a single site or multiple
                                             sites. The traits defining an administrative domain may, and in
                                             many cases will, evolve over time. Administrative domains may
                                             interact and enter into agreements for providing and/or
                                             consuming services across administrative domain boundaries.

Administrator                                A person who installs or maintains a system (for example, a
                                             SAML-based security system) or who uses it to manage system
                                             entities, users, and/or content (as opposed to application
                                             purposes; see also End User). An administrator is typically
                                             affiliated with a particular administrative domain and may be
                                             affiliated with more than one administrative domain.

Affiliation, Affiliation Group               A set of system entities that share a single namespace (in the
                                             federated sense) of identifiers for principals.

Anonymity                                    The quality or state of being anonymous, which is the condition of
                                             having a name or identity that is unknown or concealed.
                                             [RFC2828]

Artifact                                     See SAML Artifact.

Assertion                                    A piece of data produced by a SAML authority regarding either
                                             an act of authentication performed on a subject, attribute
                                             information about the subject, or authorization data applying to
                                             the subject with respect to a specified resource.

Asserting Party                              Formally, the administrative domain that hosts one or more
                                             SAML authorities. Informally, an instance of a SAML authority.

Attribute                                    A distinct characteristic of an object (in SAML, of a subject). An
                                             object’s attributes are said to describe it. Attributes are often
                                             specified in terms of physical traits, such as size, shape, weight,
                                             and color, etc., for real-world objects. Objects in cyberspace
                                             might have attributes describing size, type of encoding, network
                                             address, and so on. Attributes are often represented as pairs of
                                             "attribute name" and "attribute value(s)", e.g. "foo" has the value
                                             'bar', "count" has the value 1, "gizmo" has the values "frob" and
                                             "2", etc. Often, these are referred to as "attribute value pairs".
                                             Note that Identifiers are essentially "distinguished attributes". See
                                             also Identifier and XML attribute.

Attribute Authority                          A system entity that produces attribute assertions. [SAMLAgree]

Attribute Assertion                          An assertion that conveys information about attributes of a
                                             subject.

Authentication                               To confirm a system entity’s asserted principal identity with a
                                             specified, or understood, level of confidence. [CyberTrust]
                                             [SAMLAgree]

Authentication Assertion                     An assertion that conveys information about a successful act of
                                             authentication that took place for a subject.

Authentication Authority                     A system entity that produces authentication assertions.
                                             [SAMLAgree]

Authorization                                The process of determining, by evaluating applicable access
                                             control information, whether a subject is allowed to have the
                                             specified types of access to a particular resource. Usually,
                                             authorization is in the context of authentication. Once a subject is
                                             authenticated, it may be authorized to perform different types of
                                             access. [Taxonomy]

Authorization Decision                       The result of an act of authorization. The result may be negative,
                                             that is, it may indicate that the subject is not allowed any access
                                             to the resource.

Authorization Decision Assertion             An assertion that conveys information about an authorization
                                             decision.

Back Channel                                 Back channel refers to direct communications between two
                                             system entities without “redirecting” messages through another
                                             system entity such as an HTTP client (e.g. A user agent). See
                                             also front channel.

Binding, Protocol Binding                    Generically, a specification of the mapping of some given
                                             protocol's messages, and perhaps message exchange patterns,
                                             onto another protocol, in a concrete fashion. For example, the
                                             mapping of the SAML <AuthnRequest> message onto HTTP is
                                             one example of a binding. The mapping of that same SAML
                                             message onto SOAP is another binding. In the SAML context,
                                             each binding is given a name in the pattern “SAML xxx binding”.

Credentials                                  Data that is transferred to establish a claimed principal identity.
                                             [X.800] [SAMLAgree]

End User                                     A natural person who makes use of resources for application
                                             purposes (as opposed to system management purposes; see
                                             Administrator, User).

Federated Identity                           A principal's identity is said to be federated between a set of
                                             Providers when there is an agreement between the providers on
                                             a set of identifiers and/or attributes to use to refer to the
                                             Principal

Federate                                     To link or bind two or more entities together [Merriam].

Federation                                   This term is used in two senses in SAML:

                                                   a) The act of establishing a relationship between two entities
                                                      [Merriam].
                                                   b) An association comprising any number of service
                                                      providers and identity providers.

Front Channel                                Front channel refers to the “communications channel” that can
                                             be effected between two HTTP-speaking servers by employing
                                             “HTTP redirect” messages and thus passing messages to each
                                             other via a user agent, e.g. a web browser, or any other HTTP
                                             client [RFC2616]. See also back channel.

Identifier                                   This term is used in two senses in SAML:

                                                   c) One that identifies [Merriam].
                                                   d) A data object (for example, a string) mapped to a system
                                                      entity that uniquely refers to the system entity. A system
                                                      entity may have multiple distinct identifiers referring to it.
                                                      An identifier is essentially a "distinguished attribute" of an
                                                      entity. See also Attribute.

Identity                                     The essence of an entity [Merriam]. One's identity is often
                                             described by one's characteristics, among which may be any
                                             number of identifiers. See also Identifier, Attribute.

Identity Defederation                        The action occurring when Providers agree to stop referring to a
                                             Principal via a certain set of identifiers and/or attributes.

Identity Federation                          The act of creating a federated identity on behalf of a Principal. .

Identity Provider                            A kind of service provider that creates, maintains, and manages
                                             identity information for principals and provides principal
                                             authentication to other service providers within a federation, such
                                             as with web browser profiles.

Initial SOAP Sender                          The SOAP sender that originates a SOAP message at the
                                             starting point of a SOAP message path. [WSGloss]

Login, Logon, Sign-On                        The process whereby a user presents credentials to an
                                             authentication authority, establishes a simple session, and
                                             optionally establishes a rich session.

Logout, Logoff, Sign-Off                     The process whereby a user signifies desire to terminate a
                                             simple session or rich session.

Markup Language                              A set of XML elements and XML attributes to be applied to the
                                             structure of an XML document for a specific purpose. A markup
                                             language is typically defined by means of a set of XML schemas
                                             and accompanying documentation. For example, the Security
                                             Assertion Markup Language (SAML) is defined by two schemas
                                             and a set of normative SAML specification text.

Name Qualifier                               A string that disambiguates an identifier that may be used in
                                             more than one namespace (in the federated sense) to represent
                                             different principals.

Namespace                                    This term is used in several senses in SAML:

                                                   e) (In discussing federated names) A domain in which an
                                                      identifier is unique in representing a single principal.
                                                   f)   (With respect to authorization decision actions) A URI that
                                                        identifies the set of action values from which the supplied
                                                        action comes.
                                                   g) (In XML) See XML namespace.

Party                                        Informally, one or more principals participating in some process
                                             or communication, such as receiving an assertion or accessing a
                                             resource.

Persistent Pseudonym                         A privacy-preserving name identifier assigned by a provider to
                                             identify a principal to a given relying party for an extended period
                                             of time that spans multiple sessions; can be used to represent an
                                             identity federation.

Policy Decision Point (PDP)                  A system entity that makes authorization decisions for itself or for
                                             other system entities that request such decisions. [PolicyTerm]
                                             For example, a SAML PDP consumes authorization decision
                                             requests, and produces authorization decision assertions in
                                             response. A PDP is an “authorization decision authority”.

Policy Enforcement Point (PEP)               A system entity that requests and subsequently enforces
                                             authorization decisions. [PolicyTerm] For example, a SAML PEP
                                             sends authorization decision requests to a PDP, and consumes
                                             the authorization decision assertions sent in response.

Principal                                    A system entity whose identity can be authenticated. [X.811]

Principal Identity                           A representation of a principal’s identity, typically an identifier.

Profile                                      A set of rules for one of several purposes; each set is given a
                                             name in the pattern “xxx profile of SAML” or “xxx SAML profile”.
                                                   a) Rules for how to embed assertions into and extract them
                                                      from a protocol or other context of use.
                                                   b) Rules for using SAML protocol messages in a particular
                                                      context of use.
                                                   c) Rules for mapping attributes expressed in SAML to
                                                      another attribute representation system. Such a set of
                                                      rules is known as an “attribute profile”.

Provider                                     A generic way to refer to both identity providers and service
                                             providers.

Proxy                                        An entity authorized to act for another.
                                                   a) Authority or power to act for another.
                                                   b) A document giving such authority. [Merriam]

Proxy Server                                 A computer process that relays a protocol between client and
                                             server computer systems, by appearing to the client to be the
                                             server and appearing to the server to be the client. [RFC2828]

Pull                                         To actively request information from a system entity.

Push                                         To provide information to a system entity that did not actively
                                             request it.

Relying Party                                A system entity that decides to take an action based on
                                             information from another system entity. For example, a SAML
                                             relying party depends on receiving assertions from an asserting
                                             party (a SAML authority) about a subject.

Requester, SAML Requester                    A system entity that utilizes the SAML protocol to request
                                             services from another system entity (a SAML authority, a
                                             responder). The term “client” for this notion is not used because
                                             many system entities simultaneously or serially act as both
                                             clients and servers. In cases where the SOAP binding for SAML
                                             is being used, the SAML requester is architecturally distinct from
                                             the initial SOAP sender.

Resource                                     Data contained in an information system (for example, in the
                                             form of files, information in memory, etc), as well as:
                                                   a) A service provided by a system.
                                                   b) An item of system equipment (in other words, a system
                                                      component such as hardware, firmware, software, or
                                                      documentation).
                                                   c) A facility that houses system operations and equipment.
                                                      [RFC2828]

                                             SAML uses resource in the first two senses, and refers to
                                             resources by means of URI references.

Responder, SAML Responder                    A system entity (a SAML authority) that utilizes the SAML
                                             protocol to respond to a request for services from another
                                             system entity (a requester). The term “server” for this notion is
                                             not used because many system entities simultaneously or serially
                                             act as both clients and servers. In cases where the SOAP
                                             binding for SAML is being used, the SAML responder is
                                             architecturally distinct from the ultimate SOAP receiver.

Role                                         Dictionaries define a role as “a character or part played by a
                                             performer” or “a function or position.” System entities don various
                                             types of roles serially and/or simultaneously, for example, active
                                             roles and passive roles. The notion of an Administrator is often
                                             an example of a role.

SAML Authority                               An abstract system entity in the SAML domain model that issues
                                             assertions. See also attribute authority, authentication authority,
                                             and policy decision point (PDP).

Security                                     A collection of safeguards that ensure the confidentiality of
                                             information, protect the systems or networks used to process it,
                                             and control access to them. Security typically encompasses the
                                             concepts of secrecy, confidentiality, integrity, and availability. It is
                                             intended to ensure that a system resists potentially correlated
                                             attacks. [CyberTrust]

Security Architecture                        A plan and set of principles for an administrative domain and its
                                             security domains that describe the security services that a
                                             system is required to provide to meet the needs of its users, the
                                             system elements required to implement the services, and the
                                             performance levels required in the elements to deal with the
                                             threat environment. A complete security architecture for a system
                                             addresses administrative security, communication security,
                                             computer security, emanations security, personnel security, and
                                             physical security, and prescribes security policies for each. A
                                             complete security architecture needs to deal with both intentional,
                                             intelligent threats and accidental threats. A security architecture
                                             should explicitly evolve over time as an integral part of its
                                             administrative domain’s evolution. [RFC2828]

Security Assertion                           An assertion that is scrutinized in the context of a security
                                             architecture.

Security Assertion Markup Language(SAML)
                                             The set of specifications describing security assertions that are
                                             encoded in XML, profiles for attaching the assertions to various
                                             protocols and frameworks, the request/response protocol used to
                                             obtain the assertions, and bindings of this protocol to various
                                             transfer protocols (for example, SOAP and HTTP).

SAML Artifact                                A small, fixed-size, structured data object pointing to a typically
                                             larger,variably-sized SAML protocol message. SAML artifacts
                                             are designed to be embedded in URLs and conveyed in HTTP
                                             messages, such as HTTP response messages with "3xx
                                             Redirection" status codes, and subsequent HTTP GET
                                             messages. In this way, a service provider may indirectly, via a
                                             user agent, convey a SAML artifact to another provider, who may
                                             subsequently dereference the SAML artifact via a direct
                                             interaction with the supplying provider, and obtain the SAML
                                             protocol message. Various characteristics of the HTTP protocol
                                             and user agent implementations provided the impetus for
                                             concocting this approach. The HTTP Artifact binding section of
                                             [SAMLBind] defines both the SAML Artifact format and the SAML
                                             HTTP protocol binding incorporating it.

Security Context                             With respect to an individual SAML protocol message, the
                                             message's security context is the semantic union of the
                                             message's security header blocks (if any) along with other
                                             security mechanisms that may be employed in the message's
                                             delivery to a recipient. With respect to the latter, an examples are
                                             security mechanisms employed at lower network stack layers
                                             such as HTTP, TLS/SSL, IPSEC, etc.

                                             With respect to a system entity, "Alice", interacting with another
                                             system entity, "Bob", a security context is nominally the semantic
                                             union of all employed security mechanisms across all network
                                             connections between Alice and Bob. Alice and Bob may each
                                             individually be, for example, a provider or a user agent. This
                                             notion of security context is similar to the notion of "security
                                             contexts" as employed in [RFC2743], and in the Distributed
                                             Computing Environment [DCE], for example.

Security Domain                              An environment or context that is defined by security models and
                                             a security architecture, including a set of resources and set of
                                             system entities that are authorized to access the resources. One
                                             or more security domains may reside in a single administrative
                                             domain. The traits defining a given security domain typically
                                             evolve over time. [Taxonomy]

Security Policy                              A set of rules and practices that specify or regulate how a system
                                             or organization provides security services to protect resources.
                                             Security policies are components of security architectures.
                                             Significant portions of security policies are implemented via
                                             security services, using security policy expressions. [RFC2828]
                                             [Taxonomy]

Security Policy Expression                   A mapping of principal identities and/or attributes thereof with
                                             allowable actions. Security policy expressions are often
                                             essentially access control lists. [Taxonomy]

Security Service                             A processing or communication service that is provided by a
                                             system to give a specific kind of protection to resources, where
                                             said resources may reside with said system or reside with other
                                             systems, for example, an authentication service or a PKI-based
                                             document attribution and authentication service. A security
                                             service is a superset of AAA services. Security services typically
                                             implement portions of security policies and are implemented via
                                             security mechanisms. [RFC2828] [Taxonomy]

Service Provider                             A role donned by a system entity where the system entity
                                             provides services to principals or other system entities.

Session                                      A lasting interaction between system entities, often involving a
                                             Principal, typified by the maintenance of some state of the
                                             interaction for the duration of the interaction.

Session Authority                            A role donned by a system entity when it maintains state related
                                             to sessions. Identity providers often fulfill this role.

Session Participant                          A role donned by a system entity when it participates in a session
                                             with at least a session authority.

Site                                         An informal term for an administrative domain in geographical or
                                             DNS name sense. It may refer to a particular geographical or
                                             topological portion of an administrative domain, or it may
                                             encompass multiple administrative domains, as may be the case
                                             at an ASP site.

Subject                                      A principal in the context of a security domain. SAML assertions
                                             make declarations about subjects.

System Entity, Entity                        An active element of a computer/network system. For example,
                                             an automated process or set of processes, a subsystem, a
                                             person or group of persons that incorporates a distinct set of
                                             functionality. [RFC2828] [SAMLAgree]

Time-Out                                     A period of time after which some condition becomes true if
                                             some event has not occurred. For example, a session that is
                                             terminated because its state has been inactive for a specified
                                             period of time is said to “time out”.

Transient Pseudonym                          A privacy-preserving identifier assigned by an identity provider to
                                             identify a principal to a given relying party for a relatively short
                                             period of time that need not span multiple sessions.

Ultimate SOAP Receiver                       The SOAP receiver that is a final destination of a SOAP
                                             message. It is responsible for processing the contents of the
                                             SOAP body and any SOAP header blocks targeted at it. In some
                                             circumstances, a SOAP message might not reach an ultimate
                                             SOAP receiver, for example because of a problem at a SOAP
                                             intermediary. An ultimate SOAP receiver cannot also be a SOAP
                                             intermediary for the same SOAP message. [WSGloss]

User                                         A natural person who makes use of a system and its resources
                                             for any purpose [SAMLAgree]

Uniform Resource Identifier (URI)            A compact string of characters for identifying an abstract or
                                             physical resource. [RFC2396] URIs are the universal addressing
                                             mechanism for resources on the World Wide Web. Uniform
                                             Resource Locators (URLs) are a subset of URIs that use an
                                             addressing scheme tied to the resource’s primary access
                                             mechanism, for example, their network “location”.

URI Reference                                A URI that is allowed to have an appended number sign (#) and
                                             fragment identifier. [RFC2396] Fragment identifiers address
                                             particular locations or regions within the identified resource.

XML                                          Extensible Markup Language, abbreviated XML, describes a
                                             class of data objects called XML documents and partially
                                             describes the behavior of computer programs which process
                                             them. [XML]

XML Attribute                                An XML data structure that is embedded in the start-tag of an
                                             XML element and that has a name and a value. For example, the
                                             italicized portion below is an instance of an XML attribute:
                                             <Address AddressID=”A12345”>…</Address>

                                             See also attribute.

XML Element                                  An XML data structure that is hierarchically arranged among
                                             other such structures in an XML document and is indicated by
                                             either a start-tag and end-tag or an empty tag. For example:
                                             <Address AddressID=”A12345”>
                                                 <Street>105 Main Street</Street>
                                                 <City>Springfield</City>
                                                 <StateOrProvince>
                                                     <Full>Massachusetts</Full>
                                                     <Abbrev>MA</Abbrev>
                                                 </StateOrProvince>
                                                 <Post Code=”56789”/>
                                             </Address>

XML Namespace                                A collection of names, identified by a URI reference, which are
                                             used in XML documents as element types and attribute names.
                                             An XML namespace is often associated with an XML schema.
                                             For example, SAML defines two schemas, and each has a
                                             unique XML namespace.

XML Schema                                   The format developed by the World Wide Web Consortium
                                             (W3C) for describing rules for a markup language to be used in a
                                             set of XML documents. In the lowercase, a “schema” or “XML
                                             schema” is an individual instance of this format. For example,
                                             SAML defines two schemas, one containing the rules for XML
                                             documents that encode security assertions and one containing
                                             the rules for XML documents that encode request/response
                                             protocol messages. Schemas define not only XML elements and
                                             XML attributes, but also datatypes that apply to these constructs.

2       References
    [CyberTrust]            Fred B. Schneider, editor. Trust in Cyberspace. Committee on Information
                            Systems Trustworthiness, National Research Council, ISBN 0-309-06558-5,
                            1999. See http://www.nap.edu/readingroom/books/trust/ and glossary at
                            http://www.nap.edu/readingroom/books/trust/trustapk.htm.
    [DCE]                   DCE 1.2.2 Introduction to OSF DCE. The Open Group, Catalog number F201,
                            ISBN 1-85912-182-9, Nov 1997. See
                            http://www.opengroup.org/pubs/catalog/f201.htm.
    [Merriam]               Merriam-Webster Collegiate Dictionary. CDROM Version 2.5, 2000. An online
                            version is available at http://www.m-w.com.
    [PolicyTerm]            A. Westerinen et al. Terminology for Policy-Based Management. IETF RFC 3198,
                            November 2001. See http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc3198.txt.
    [RFC2396]               T. Berners-Lee et al. Uniform Resource Identifiers (URI): Generic Syntax. IETF
                            RFC 2396, August 1998. See http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2396.txt.
    [RFC2616]               R. Fielding et al. Hypertext Transfer Protocol – HTTP/1.1. IETF RFC 2616, June
                            1999. See http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2616.txt.
    [RFC2743]               J. Linn. Generic Security Service Application Program Interface Version 2,
                            Update 1, IETF RFC 2743, January 2000. See http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2743.txt.
    [RFC2828]               R. Shirey. Internet Security Glossary. IETF RFC 2828, May 2000. See
                            http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2828.txt.
    [RFC2829]               M. Wahl et al. Authentication Methods for LDAP. IETF RFC 2829, May 2000. See
                            http://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc2829.txt.
    [SAMLAgree]             OASIS Security Services TC Use Case and Requirements Conference Call
                            Consensus. Consensus on the wording for this item occurred during one or more
                            conference calls of the SAML Use Cases and Requirements subcommittee.
                            Meeting minutes are available at http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/security-use/.
    [SAMLBind]              S. Cantor et al. Bindings for the OASIS Security Assertion Markup Language
                            (SAML) V2.0. OASIS SSTC, March 2005. Document ID saml-bindings-2.0-os.
                            See http://www.oasis-open.org/committees/security/.
    [Taxonomy]              Security Taxonomy and Glossary. Lynn Wheeler, ongoing. See
                            http://www.garlic.com/~lynn/secure.htm. See http://www.garlic.com/~lynn/ for the
                            list of sources.
    [X.800]                 Information processing systems – Open Systems Interconnection – Basic
                            Reference Model – Part 2: Security Architecture. ISO 7498-2:1989, ITU-T
                            Recommendation X.800 (1991). See http://www.itu.int/itudoc/itu-
                            t/rec/x/x500up/x800.html.
    [X.811]                 Security Frameworks for Open Systems: Authentication Framework. ITU-T
                            Recommendation X.811 (1995 E), ISO/IEC 10181-2:1996(E). See
                            http://www.itu.int/itudoc/itu-t/rec/x/x500up/x811.html.
    [X.812]                 Security frameworks for open systems: Access control framework. ITU-T
                            Recommendation X.812 (1995 E), ISO/IEC 10181-3:1996(E). See
                            http://www.itu.int/itudoc/itu-t/rec/x/x500up/x812.html.
    [XML]                   T. Bray et al. Extensible Markup Language (XML) 1.0 (Third Edition). World Wide
                            Web Consortium Recommendation, February 2004. See
                            http://www.w3.org/TR/2004/REC-xml-20040204.
    [WSGloss]               H. Haas et al. Web Services Glossary, World Wide Web Consortium Note,
                            February 2004. See http://www.w3.org/TR/ws-gloss/.

Appendix A. Acknowledgments
The editors would like to acknowledge the contributions of the OASIS Security Services Technical
Committee, whose voting members at the time of publication were:
   • Conor Cahill, AOL
   • John Hughes, Atos Origin
   • Hal Lockhart, BEA Systems
   • Mike Beach, Boeing
   • Rebekah Metz, Booz Allen Hamilton
   • Rick Randall, Booz Allen Hamilton
   • Ronald Jacobson, Computer Associates
   • Gavenraj Sodhi, Computer Associates
   • Thomas Wisniewski, Entrust
   • Carolina Canales-Valenzuela, Ericsson
   • Dana Kaufman, Forum Systems
   • Irving Reid, Hewlett-Packard
   • Guy Denton, IBM
   • Heather Hinton, IBM
   • Maryann Hondo, IBM
   • Michael McIntosh, IBM
   • Anthony Nadalin, IBM
   • Nick Ragouzis, Individual
   • Scott Cantor, Internet2
   • Bob Morgan, Internet2
   • Peter Davis, Neustar
   • Jeff Hodges, Neustar
   • Frederick Hirsch, Nokia
   • Senthil Sengodan, Nokia
   • Abbie Barbir, Nortel Networks
   • Scott Kiester, Novell
   • Cameron Morris, Novell
   • Paul Madsen, NTT
   • Steve Anderson, OpenNetwork
   • Ari Kermaier, Oracle
   • Vamsi Motukuru, Oracle
   • Darren Platt, Ping Identity
   • Prateek Mishra, Principal Identity
   • Jim Lien, RSA Security
   • John Linn, RSA Security
   • Rob Philpott, RSA Security
   • Dipak Chopra, SAP
   • Jahan Moreh, Sigaba
   • Bhavna Bhatnagar, Sun Microsystems
   • Eve Maler, Sun Microsystems
   • Ronald Monzillo, Sun Microsystems

    • Emily Xu, Sun Microsystems
    • Greg Whitehead, Trustgenix

The editors also would like to acknowledge the following former SSTC members for their contributions to
this or previous versions of the OASIS Security Assertions Markup Language Standard:
     • Stephen Farrell, Baltimore Technologies
     • David Orchard, BEA Systems
     • Krishna Sankar, Cisco Systems
     • Zahid Ahmed, CommerceOne
     • Tim Alsop, CyberSafe Limited
     • Carlisle Adams, Entrust
     • Tim Moses, Entrust
     • Nigel Edwards, Hewlett-Packard
     • Joe Pato, Hewlett-Packard
     • Bob Blakley, IBM
     • Marlena Erdos, IBM
     • Marc Chanliau, Netegrity
     • Chris McLaren, Netegrity
     • Lynne Rosenthal, NIST
     • Mark Skall, NIST
     • Charles Knouse, Oblix
     • Simon Godik, Overxeer
     • Charles Norwood, SAIC
     • Evan Prodromou, Securant
     • Robert Griffin, RSA Security (former editor)
     • Sai Allarvarpu, Sun Microsystems
     • Gary Ellison, Sun Microsystems
     • Chris Ferris, Sun Microsystems
     • Mike Myers, Traceroute Security
     • Phillip Hallam-Baker, VeriSign (former editor)
     • James Vanderbeek, Vodafone
     • Mark O’Neill, Vordel
     • Tony Palmer, Vordel

Finally, the editors wish to acknowledge the following people for their contributions of material used as
input to the OASIS Security Assertions Markup Language specifications:
    • Thomas Gross, IBM
    • Birgit Pfitzmann, IBM

Appendix B. Notices
OASIS takes no position regarding the validity or scope of any intellectual property or other rights that
might be claimed to pertain to the implementation or use of the technology described in this document or
the extent to which any license under such rights might or might not be available; neither does it represent
that it has made any effort to identify any such rights. Information on OASIS's procedures with respect to
rights in OASIS specifications can be found at the OASIS website. Copies of claims of rights made
available for publication and any assurances of licenses to be made available, or the result of an attempt
made to obtain a general license or permission for the use of such proprietary rights by implementors or
users of this specification, can be obtained from the OASIS Executive Director.
OASIS invites any interested party to bring to its attention any copyrights, patents or patent applications, or
other proprietary rights which may cover technology that may be required to implement this specification.
Please address the information to the OASIS Executive Director.
Copyright © OASIS Open 2005. All Rights Reserved.
This document and translations of it may be copied and furnished to others, and derivative works that
comment on or otherwise explain it or assist in its implementation may be prepared, copied, published and
distributed, in whole or in part, without restriction of any kind, provided that the above copyright notice and
this paragraph are included on all such copies and derivative works. However, this document itself may
not be modified in any way, such as by removing the copyright notice or references to OASIS, except as
needed for the purpose of developing OASIS specifications, in which case the procedures for copyrights
defined in the OASIS Intellectual Property Rights document must be followed, or as required to translate it
into languages other than English.
The limited permissions granted above are perpetual and will not be revoked by OASIS or its successors
or assigns.
This document and the information contained herein is provided on an “AS IS” basis and OASIS
DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY
WARRANTY THAT THE USE OF THE INFORMATION HEREIN WILL NOT INFRINGE ANY RIGHTS OR
ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
